.\" Manpage for ecurl
.TH ecurl 1 "2025-11-12" "ecurl 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
ecurl \- Encoded cURL for penetration testing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ecurl
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBecurl\fR is a small POSIX-compatible wrapper around \fBcurl\fR that
applies common encodings (URL, double-URL, HTML, Base64, Unicode) to
injection payloads and offers helper features useful during authorized
penetration testing: session/cookie management, batch payload testing,
tamper hooks, JSON metadata output, and simple history management.

The tool is intended for \fIauthorized security testing only\fR. Always
obtain written permission before testing systems you do not own.

.SH OPTIONS
The options below are the key flags supported by ecurl. Use \fB--help\fR
or run without arguments to see the full, colorized interactive help.

.TP
.B -t, --target <URL>
Set a persistent target URL. Saved to \fI~/.ecurl_target\fR when used.
.TP
.B -u, --url <URL>
One-time target URL (does not persist).
.TP
.B -i, --injection <TEXT>
Payload to encode and send. Required for normal operation.
.TP
.B -c, --count <N>
Number of encoding passes (default: 1).
.TP
.B -X, --method <METHOD>
HTTP method (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, ...).
.TP
.B -d, --data <DATA>
POST/PUT data. May be given multiple times.
.TP
.B -H, --header <HEADER>
Custom header. May be given multiple times.
.TP
.B -A, --user-agent <STRING>
Set User-Agent header.
.TP
.B --encode-type <TYPE>
Encoding type: \fIurl\fR (default), \fIdouble\fR, \fIhtml\fR, \fIbase64\fR, \fIunicode\fR.
.TP
.B --payload-file <FILE>
Run batch testing using each line in \fIFILE\fR as a payload.
.TP
.B --json
Emit structured JSON metadata and base64-encoded response body for chaining.
.TP
.B -s, --show
Show the encoded payload without sending the request.
.TP
.B --session <NAME>
Named session for cookie persistence (saved under \fI~/.ecurl_session.<NAME>\fR).
.TP
.B --clear-cookies
Clear stored cookie jar and session files.
.TP
.B --history
Show recent command history (stored in \fI~/.ecurl_history\fR).
.TP
.B --export-config
Export current configuration to a JSON file.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B --version
Show version information and exit.

.SH EXIT STATUS
The program returns standard exit status codes:
.IP
\(bu 8
0  Success
.IP
\(bu 8
1  General error
.IP
\(bu 8
2  Missing argument
.IP
\(bu 8
3  Invalid argument
.IP
\(bu 8
4  Missing dependency
.IP
\(bu 8
5  cURL error
.IP
\(bu 8
6  File error

.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.ecurl_target
Persistent target URL (optional).
.TP
.I ~/.ecurl_cookies
Default cookie jar.
.TP
.I ~/.ecurl_session.*
Named session cookie files.
.TP
.I ~/.ecurl_history
Command history and logs of recent invocations.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
If set (non-empty), disables colored output.
.TP
.B PATH
Relies on \fBcurl\fR, \fBperl\fR, and \fBjq\fR being available in PATH.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run a quick URL-encoded injection against a saved target:
.RS
.nf
ecurl -t "https://target.example.com/vuln?id=" 
ecurl -i "1' OR '1'='1"
.fi
.RE
.TP
Run a POST with an encoded payload through an HTTP proxy:
.RS
.nf
ecurl -u "https://target/api?input=" -X POST -d "username=admin" -p http://127.0.0.1:8080 -i "' OR 1=1--"
.fi
.RE
.TP
Show the encoded payload without sending:
.RS
.nf
ecurl -i "<script>alert(1)</script>" -c 2 -s
.fi
.RE

.SH SECURITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
\fBecurl\fR is designed for use in penetration testing and red-team engagements.
Always obtain explicit authorization in writing from the resource owner before
running tests. Misuse of this tool against systems without permission is a
violation of law and ethics.

.SH BUGS
Report issues and feature requests at:
https://github.com/jaketcooper/ecurl/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
Copyright © 2025 jaketcooper
Licensed under the MIT License. See the project repository for the full license text.

.SH AUTHORS
Written and maintained by jaketcooper <https://github.com/jaketcooper>.

